peace Palace in the Dutch city of the ha
home of the international court of
justice it's the only major organ of the
United Nations which is not based in New
York but what happens in the court in
the coming days is being keenly watched
here on the other side of the Atlantic
at un
headquarters already the ambassador of
Israel whose diplomats have been
actively lobbying other UN members has
angrily denounced the case in a speech
in the UN General Assembly perhaps an
indication
of how worried his country is South
Africa's baseless and liess cases at the
J icj proves this
exactly how can it be remember it that
the convention on the prevention of
genocide adopted following the Holocaust
the genocide of the Jewish people is now
being weaponized against the Jewish
state the law is normally supposed to be
above politics but when it comes comes
to international law things get more
complicated candidates to be judges at
the international court of justice are
nominated by their own countries which
then campaign for them in what's an
inherently political process the
elections held every year are often a
drawn out procedure as they happen
simultaneously in the general assembly
and the security Council the Palestinian
ambassador to the UN has told me he
believes the case before the court now
is being given extra weight because it's
being brought by South Africa a country
that suffered so much in the past under
a parid rule nobody would question that
a country like South Africa which
defeated apptide that it is not on the
top of the mountain of uh of of morality
and respect for human rights and the
rights of people in general so we are
grateful to them here at the UN there's
some hope the case could potentially
break the deadlock on the UN Security
Council over the past 3 months there
have been repeated efforts to pass a
resolution calling for a ceasefire in
Gaza but on three occasions one country
the US has used its veto to block such
action if the international court of
justice were to decide to order
provisional measures to stop Israel's
bombardment it would be up to the
security Council to enforce such a
ruling the us has received a great deal
of global criticism for its three vetos
on Gaza and president bid has repeatedly
said his country is a guardian of the
rules-based international order so would
he really be prepared to let his country
veto again this time in defiance of the
world's highest court James Bay Al jazer
at the United
Nations make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer